# Apple App Tracking Transparency and its Effect on Businesses
Here, I discuss Apple's new App Tracking Transparency feature, which allows users to choose whether an app can track them and collect their data. Two different viewpoints about it are discussed; while many believe it is beneficial, others are concerned that it will negatively effect small businesses.

## Article 1
In The Washtington Post's article [Facebook now has to ask permission to track your iPhone. Here's how to stop it.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/04/26/iphone-ask-app-not-to-track-ios-update/), the author Geoffrey A. Fowler discusses how this new feature is a great step in protecting people's privacy. He talks about how previously, apps could collect a lot of data about your personal information and activity and either sell it or use it to show you specific ads. I agree with Fowler; this change is a big step in the right direction. In the growing age of the internet, many people are concerned about their privacy online. People want to protect themselves and their personal information more than ever, especially with news of data leaks and companies getting hacked. This change will help a lot of people feel safer about their internet usage.

While I don't know too much about this particular issue, I don't like that companies can make money off of my data and private information. In addition, it bothers me that companies can target their ads at me to try to get me to spend my money on something I may not even want or need. There have been countless times that I've searched something on Google or an app, or even mentioned it in a conversation, and seen ads for something similar after. I usually find it very creepy; it almost feels like my phone is listening to me and following my every move. I like Apple's new feature and don't let any apps track my activity.

## Article 2
However, NPR's article [Apple's move to reduce data tracking has been a blow for some small businesses](https://www.npr.org/2022/08/20/1118619832/apples-move-to-reduce-data-tracking-has-been-a-blow-for-some-small-businesses) discusses how this change negatively impacts many people. In the article, Kelly Deen, who works for a small business, talks about how thet previously used "apps like Facebook" to target ads at specific consumers who they believe will like their product. She says that, with Apple's new feature, advertising costs more for less benefit. I can definitely understand her opinion and concerns. Now more than ever, it is very hard to start a business. You need to come up with an innovative idea that people will like, fund the production of that idea, and figure out how to get it out to your target consumers through marketing, along with keeping up with the many other aspects involved in running a business. For small businesses with less resources and workers, this is harder. The market is so saturated that it can be hard to get your product to the hands of consumers; targeted ads would help with this problem.

In the article, Deen mentions that her company, Kencko, is looking for and testing new ways of finding customers. I believe that even without Apple's new feature, this can be very beneficial to any small business. These new avenues can help a small business find the perfect customers that it wasn't advertising to before, expanding its reach and increasing its profits. This is definitely difficult, but with the right research and experimentation, I believe any small business can thrive.